# S-P-Global-Task
Finance Manager application

To develop this task, in this solution, I used the programming language C++, structured in the object – orientated (OO) paradigm. Whilst C++ shares the basic data types from the language C it also uses other useful data types such as error / exception, ofstream and more importantly provides objects allowing me to use object datatypes. The way I used abstraction in my solution is through classes, to encapsulate a collection of related data and functionalities which can be reused, when necessary, in combination with vectors for dynamic data storage. In my solution the “Finance”, “Transaction” and “Compound Interest” classes each contain relevant data for the methods to operate on, to carry out specific functionalities that each contribute to solving the task. Each of these classes handle a menu option, where a class can be used to handle data input by the user to create the desired output. For example, the class “Finance” abstracts financial information that the user inputs through questions and then the class uses methods to calculate and output the relevant results such as net income or generating finance reports. In addition, I used a template class called “ValidInput”. This class is used to validate the user inputs and provide a cleaner UI that can handle errors when specific datatypes are required, I adapted this class to be used on multiple different datatypes to increase the reusability and flexibility of this class. Futhermore, I added a simple password security which I hardcoded that asks the user in the terminal to enter a specific number, this is a rough prototype that can be enhanced upon to proivde a better a more presentable solution.

The solution to the task conforms to the OO paradigm as throughout my code I used abstraction through classes. The simultaneous code abstraction and data abstraction in my classes proves a clear separation between the interface and where the logic is handled. My solution also uses aggregation, this is done in the “FinanceManager” class as it includes instances of other classes, such as vectors of “Transaction” objects. This type of abstraction allows me to use the encapsulated functionalities of classes outside their own object hierarchy to contribute towards the overall solution. For example, when the user chooses to display the transactions from the menu the “FinanceManager” class will use the display transaction method from the “transaction” class. This type of abstraction also conforms to the OO paradigm.
